[music]
>> My name's Lucas. I'm in our applied AI
team. And today we're going to be
talking about picking the right model.
So,
what we're going to talk about today is
picking the right model.
And this is something I think
conceptually seems very easy, right?
But the more we dig into it, the sort of
more difficult the problem
tends to be.
And let's consider the following
scenario.
And we at Anthropic have just launched a
new model.
And as usual, there's a lot of noise.
Alongside the model launch, we will
release a model card.
We will give prompting guides. We will
give benchmark results.
Um
you'll also see a lot of hot takes on X
or Twitter from, you know, AGI is here
all the way to Anthropic is cooked. And
there's, you know, various posts across
the internet again giving kind of hot
takes on the quality of our on new
model.
But the key question often for you guys
is, what does that mean for your use
case? What does that mean for your
business? And should you effectively
drop in this new model to your product?
Will it be an uplift?
Or if you're building greenfield, which
model should you select to to even start
with?
And to address that, what we basically
want to build is a repeatable process.
Something you can come back to time and
time again that gives you a clear yes,
no decision on when to select this new
model.
In other words, we want to build an
eval.
So, coming back to the original problem,
conceptually very simple, right? When
you need more intelligence, you reach
for Opus. When you need lower latency or
lower cost, you reach for Haiku. And
when you want some balance of the two,
you can use Sonnet.
But what about effort levels? While this
introduces a little bit more depth to
the problem, should we reach for Sonnet
with max thinking? Should we reach for
Opus with low thinking? Maybe comparing
Haiku versus Sonnet with no thinking.
And this is just Anthropic. A lot of you
will be comparing models, not just the
core models, but across other providers
as well.
So, how do we frame this? How do we
frame this decision?
And I think there's really three pillars
that most folks tend to think through
when choosing which model to use.
The first one is the model quality.
Effectively, how well does it actually
perform on your task? What is the task
completion rate? What is the accuracy of
the model? Um and various other metrics
you might track.
Number two is latency. Especially for
customer-facing use cases, latency
becomes very, very important.
And number three is cost, which is
obviously a big consideration for a lot
of different customers as well.
So, I think through the lens of
basically these three pillars of
quality, cost, and latency, we can start
to build an eval around them to help us
make an informed decision on which model
we should actually use.
So, the three things we're going to try
and take away from today.
Number one is a small, it can be a very
small, well-designed eval
will be much more important for you guys
to assess which model to use than any
public benchmark out there.
Number two is the model that's right for
your use case is not necessarily the one
that's cheapest or fastest per token,
but the one that is cheapest per
successful outcome. And we'll deep dive
a little bit more into that later on in
the talk.
And number three is we have actually
quite a lot of knobs and dials that we
can twist and turn to kind of move up
and down the cost accuracy
frontier with a little bit more fine
grain control. Or if you think about
that Pareto curve of the performance of
the model versus the cost, we can
actually shift that curve entirely and
there's a number of strategies we have
to do that.
But I just want to reflect a little bit
on what the public benchmarks at least
do and don't tell us.
And
I think directionally these benchmarks
provide us with some insight as to
generally whether a model has improved
at coding or various other tasks. So, in
our model releases will often include
benchmark results on things like
SWE-bench verified or browse com
which are basically what they what they
say on the tin. How good is the model at
generally at coding? How good is the
model generally at research research
type tasks?
However, none of these really tend tend
to match your use case. If you think
about a coding agent in production,
often it will need to go and research
and find some niche specific part about
an SDK on the web and then go and
implement that in code. So, already
we're crossing over two benchmarks and
your workloads often look much more
heterogeneous than that.
And so, you know, you might have a
coding task, but your coding task can
still look a lot different than
SWE-bench. Maybe you're using languages
that don't even show up in SWE-bench.
So, the point being here is these public
benchmarks are like somewhat directional
and give you a bit of a take on
you know, some of the best models out
there. However, for your specific
workload, it's incredibly important to
build your own evals.
So, how do we do that? I think you will
hear us at Anthropic talk a lot about
evals and we have some other workshops
on this. So, we're going to do a bit of
an express tour.
But effectively, what we want to do is
build up an eval which is composed of a
set of tasks, and we can consider a task
to be the kind of atomic unit of our
eval.
A task being
a kind of test with a set of inputs,
some success criteria,
and we want to basically build up a data
set of these tests.
Now,
the kind of heuristic I've been using
for evals over the course of the last
few months is thinking about them much
like a maths exam when you're at school.
So, you have your question,
you have your answer that you need to
get right,
but it's also very important to show the
working in between.
And I think this is, especially for
agentic type tasks, exactly the sort of
thing we should think about when
evaluating the performance of a model.
So, we will ultimately compose a data
set with a set of questions or inputs to
our system.
We want to of course check that our
agent reaches the final outcome
correctly, but we also want to make sure
it took the right steps to get that.
So, the point being is the kind of
working is as important as the outcome.
So, I think it's helpful to kind of
consider a real-life example.
If you consider a customer service
agent,
we might want to build an eval where we
use an LLM as a judge to check the final
response matches what our expected
response should be,
but we might also want to use some kind
of LLM as a judge to make sure the agent
queried your database in the right way
to find the customer's details.
And I think LLM as a judge can be pretty
helpful because, let's say your agent is
writing SQL, it can be like
syntactically a little bit different,
and the LLM as a judge can kind of
notice that, and as long as the same
data is being pulled, it's kind of
robust to to that.
And you can also use deterministic, like
code-based evals to make sure, "Hey, I
always want my agent to call this tool
to search our internal routines." Or
when it's searching the routines, "I
always want my agent to add an argument
to localize the search to whatever
country the customer is in."
So effectively, you want to build up
this set of graders
um per task where you all ultimately
will have to do a lot of hard yards
of creating these data sets, defining
yourself to begin with what is the right
solutions and what is the right outcomes
and what is the right steps to to get
there.
But ultimately, I think it's one of the
highest leverage things you will do.
And in a world where we're automating a
lot of stuff with AI, taking the time to
actually build that eval data set, I
think it's like one of the best uses of
your human time that there is.
So the TLDR here is we want to create
this reference set of evals that will
effectively form the basis of making a
much more data-driven decision on
picking the right model.
Now, we within Anthropic have been
building evals for quite a bit of time
now, and I think it's worth touching on
a few kind of common gotchas that we've
seen, a few common errors that we've
seen or failure modes when when building
evals.
So on this slide, there's three main
things that I kind of want to call out.
Number one is kind of this process of
mistake in noise for signal.
So the simple thing to do here is once
you've defined your eval and you're
running it, to make sure you run it a
number of times on every task and make
sure that the result holds. And if
you're seeing a lot of variance in the
metrics and results that you're getting,
it's maybe a signal to you guys that the
task is not super well defined or that
your evals are kind of not fully
aligned.
Number two is infra failures. So, you
might see your eval results and see the
numbers coming out the other side and
something looks a little bit off. Maybe
the numbers are really down for Opus.
And when you dig into the actual
transcripts, you might notice that
there's a lot of API failures or a lot
of tool call failures. And I want to be
very clear, we should separate those
from our actual evaluation of the model
itself. These are infra issues and not
model issues.
So, I think
really like digging into the transcripts
and figuring out where a failure
happened and figuring out like did
something score low on a benchmark
because the model actually didn't
perform very well itself
or was there some kind of infra failure?
And again, this is the kind of
work that um is easy to overlook. It's
very easy to like run your eval's, get a
result on the other side,
and make a decision based on that. But
like actually getting into the
transcripts again is like a very good
use of your time.
And then number three is this point on
silent saturation.
So, I think the most salient point here
is having a data set that is actually
representative of the data that you'll
see in production, actually
representative of the types of questions
a human might ask your system. And I
think generating this feedback loop,
especially once you've launched a
product, to
collect traces, see what people are
asking your system, see the failure
modes of where your agent or LM use case
is failing, and put those back into your
eval set. So, you really get this
representative diverse sample of the
sorts of inputs that your system needs
to take.
And then finally, I think it's worth
calling out that every model is a little
bit nuanced and has its own kind of
quirky behavioral changes. So, we will
release a prompting guide when we
release any new model. And like we do
really put a lot of time into that and I
think it's worth reading through.
Or even just feeding that prompting
guide to Claude and asking it to update
your prompts accordingly.
So, I'll give you an example. I was
working on a tool
within Claude AI.
And with Opus 4.5, that tool was like
drastically under-triggered. And with
Opus 4.6, the tool was drastically
over-triggered with the exact same
prompt.
And so, the takeaway here is you will
also need to do a little bit of like
fine-tuning and adjusting your prompts
based on the model that you're using.
Claude will ultimately perform a little
bit differently between the model
variants, and Claude will obviously
perform a little bit differently than
GPT. So, there's some kind of like hand
tweaking to be done there as well.
And the other big thing I really want
you to take away from today's session.
I've said it before, and I'll say it
again. You like really need to read your
transcripts of what the agent or model
is doing at different points in your
system.
So, I would try and make this as
stupidly easy as possible.
So, setting up good observability,
whether it be LangSmith, BrainTrust, or
some of the various other platforms out
there, making sure if you're building an
agent, everything is traced in there
from the system prompts, the tool call
that the agent made, the tool result the
agent gets back.
Um what you basically want to be able to
do is dig in and at any point see
exactly what the model saw,
and then how it behaved, because that is
ultimately your way to debugging any
issues that you have.
So, I'll give you an example.
We ran an eval on Claude code, and we
saw Claude was performing like very,
very well on this coding benchmark.
When we actually dug into the
transcripts, what we found was that
Claude was going into the get history
and seeing what it did in previous
trials and extracting the answer from
there.
So, if we would have just looked at the
headline metrics from the eval, we would
have thought like great, we've made a
huge improvement, but it's only by
digging into the transcripts that you
start to see some of the actually
underlying patterns that are emerging,
some of the real things that need to be
fixed and um so the closer you can get
to the raw data, very much the better.
So to kind of recap at this point, we've
talked a little bit about how building a
private eval is extremely important for
making a data-informed decision on
picking the right model.
We've talked a little bit or done an
express loop of actually building an
eval and some of the common failure
modes in doing so.
Now what I want to talk a little bit
more about is what are the tools and
dials available to us to kind of move up
and down that frontier and trade-off
between cost and quality or latency and
quality.
And let's start off with a little story.
So we had a code fix pipeline internally
and it was a pretty simple task. So the
team used Haiku 45 with no thinking to
begin with and scored 92% as you can see
on the screen there.
Uh the team ultimately wanted to get
100% so they turned thinking on and
actually got there. Again, this was
actually a pretty simple uh pipeline.
And they actually decided to rerun the
eval with Sonnet and Opus as well.
And as you can see on the screen, they
actually both scored 100% as well, but
counterintuitively
took way less time in doing so. We
weren't super cost constrained on this
task, we just wanted it to run as
quickly as possible.
Now this is very interesting, right?
Because on the face of it, you would
think that Haiku would be much faster,
but actually some of the more
intelligent models can be much more
efficient from a time perspective
because they can do things in fewer
turns. They can effectively plan a
little bit more strategically. They
don't need to spend as much time
researching to validate what they're
going to do is correct.
And so,
what I think we can do is start playing
around with these configs, thinking, and
effort
to really like extract the maximum value
for for our specific use case. I think
it's worth just touching slightly upon
what both of these things are, because
we've played around with them quite a
lot. There's different types of
thinking, different types of effort. So,
let's just recap slightly.
Uh from Sonnet 4 6 or our 4 6 class of
models onwards, we have adaptive
thinking.
So, the model itself will decide how
much it needs to think for a given task.
And this is effectively called
scratchpad
to
think before it acts think before it
works, in fact. So, this is system two
type thinking.
And then we have effort.
And this will tell Claude how much to
write across both thinking, tool calls,
and responses.
So, you can have low thinking with high
effort, for example,
or you can have no thinking, but still
use effort parameters. Effort is
basically telling Claude how much effort
or work it should put into this task.
Thinking is giving Claude a scratchpad
to think before it acts.
And we can effectively use both of these
configs and dials to have quite a lot of
fine-grained control of
uh where we want to be on the this
accuracy cost curve.
So, another example here
is
uh again another counterintuitive point.
When we released
Opus 4 5, what we saw is
uh Opus 4 5 on screen is the orange line
there,
is that it was again able to complete
tasks and have a high high or higher
level of accuracy than Sonnet and
significantly fewer number of output
tokens.
And again, like if you were just going
off the vibes of smaller model runs
faster, you probably would have chosen
Sonnet not knowing that Opus can
actually complete things faster and with
a lower number of tokens. I think the
other thing to call out on this slide is
you can see this Opus spread between the
different levels of effort.
And what you can see there is you can
then make some nice trade-offs between
am I optimizing for a lower number of
output tokens or am I optimizing for
accuracy? And if you want higher
accuracy, you can choose higher levels
of effort.
Or if you want lower latency, you can
probably choose lower lower levels of
effort. So you can use this effort
parameter to really have like much more
control over just selecting a model
alone.
The other thing that at least makes me
very excited is like actually shifting
that frontier entirely. And I think
there's a couple of hacks here that we
can use in order to not just like move
along that curve, but shift the curve
entirely.
And the first one is prompt caching.
So
with prompt caching, uh we have a bunch
of guides online and I would really
encourage you to to read into it more.
But effectively, you when you're using
prompt caching and you're basically
using a prefix of a prompt that's saved,
precomputed, and precached, you pay 1/10
the num the price of the list price of
input tokens. So effectively, what this
means is you can get Opus quality at
Sonnet cost, or you can get Sonnet
quality at Haiku cost. This is one of
the most effective strategies we use in
a lot of our products. Like we use
extensively in Claude Code, we use
extensively in Cohere.
And to kind of benchmark for yourselves
a little bit,
uh a lot of the best AI systems and
applications we see have prompt cash hit
rates of around 80% or 90%. So, that's
kind of your goal to aim for.
But, this unlocks whole new use cases,
right? If we can use prompt caching
effectively, we're paying 1/10 of the
list price of input tokens, then
suddenly like we couldn't afford Opus
and now we can. Or maybe there's whole
new use cases and budgets that are
opened up because we're able to save so
much money.
And the other thing to to call out here
is in our APIs and our and our SDKs, we
return you the token metrics
and not only the raw tokens consumed,
but the prompt cash
uh tokens on the input. So, we make it
very very easy for you guys to measure
your prompt cash hit rates, as well.
So, I'd really encourage you to
effectively measure it, hill climb it,
and try and get your prompt cash hit
rate as high as possible.
Um the other kind of main thing I would
mention when it comes to prompt caching,
the simple thing that works, especially
if you're building an agent, is use this
strategy of append only.
So, if you have a system prompt, don't
have too many dynamic variables in that.
The common failure mode I see here is
somebody putting a date time variable in
that system prompt.
So, with every turn, the time ticks up
and you break the cash.
Effectively, I would treat everything in
your messages array that you're sending
to the API as immutable. Once it's done
and you're going and adding only, I
would append only to your messages
array, and this is like the easiest sure
fire way to make sure you don't break
the cash.
Tarik from our Claude code team, one of
the main engineers on the Claude code
team, has written and talked about this
extensively. So, I would like go and
look at some of the stuff he's written
about how he implemented this in Claude
code, as well.
And the second thing I want to talk
about is context hygiene and context
engineering.
Um
My kind of hot take here is people spend
too much time thinking about these like
super complex multi-agent orchestration
systems and not enough time doing the
simple thing that works, which is just
like good context hygiene and good
context engineering.
So, effectively, if we can improve the
token efficiency of our tool responses,
we can save
a lot of tokens that we're putting into
the model, saving cost and improving
latency.
And we also have this kind of
secondary effect of because we provided
Claude with cleaner, more efficient
data, Claude's responses tend to be
better and more accurate, as well.
So, if we look at the example of the
screen,
let's pretend we have a tool which
returns sports data. In this case, uh
Premier League scores.
And there's a few changes we made to
Firstly, we use markdown instead of
JSON.
Secondly, instead of these full,
inefficient date time stamps, we just
put a very simple date time stamp.
And then we also added a day of the
week, so Claude much more easily
understands, rather than having to think
too much about what day of the week
every game is happening.
And in just cleaning up this response,
we see a 66.4%
reduction in tokens from this tool
response.
And that compounds every time, right? If
you're having an agent that is running
multiple turns, your tool response
doesn't just show up once, but in every
single turn in the conversation.
So, these small hygiene things really
make a a huge impact, and I can't
emphasize this enough.
A couple more examples of this that I've
worked on. I was working on a web search
use case with a customer,
and we effectively deduplicated articles
that were returned from the same search
or from different searches in fact.
And this one this one trick effectively
of multiple searches running, taking the
articles and deduplicating them before
they're returned to Claude, led to a 77%
reduction in the number of input tokens
that Claude was receiving. A 65%
reduction in cost and Claude's accuracy
actually went up 9% because again, it's
having to reason over less data.
And these metrics sound kind of like
plucked out of thin air, but these are
run and we can actually measure them
because we built evals to begin with.
And this is like huge amounts, right? If
you can save 65%
cost just by doing good context
engineering, you can think again, this
opens up the ability to use a more
intelligent model or this opens up the
ability to go and run whole new use
cases for the given budget that you
have.
So again, I would encourage you not to
just take an API response and pipe it
back through your tool,
but to actually have your tool,
especially a lot of tools wrap APIs,
and be a little bit more thoughtful.
Clean up that JSON response you get back
from the API before passing it back to
Claude.
Much like a human, make it as simple and
easy to read as possible. In doing so,
you'll reduce the number of tokens
provided to Claude.
And you'll have this again secondary
effect of improving accuracy across a
lot of use cases that you have.
So three main things to take away before
we get into the workshop. Number one,
a small well-designed eval is going to
teach you so much more about which model
you should use than any public benchmark
out there ever could. So spend time
investing in building that eval.
Number two, the right model is not the
model that is cheapest per token.
The right model is the one that is
cheapest per successful outcome.
And once you've built that eval, you can
effectively run Claude with multiple
different models, multiple different
configurations, see that Pareto
frontier, and then you have the choice
of where you want to select along it.
And then number three, use these
different dials that we have, effort,
thinking, prompt caching, and context
engineering to have much more
fine-grained control on where you want
to end up on that frontier or shifting
the frontier entirely.
And I think if you can do those three
things, you'll end up in a pretty good
place when it comes to choosing the
right model for your use case, even
unlocking new use cases, being able to
access higher intelligence at a lower
cost.
So now I want to move into a workshop
that you can follow along with yourself.
And you can go to this link here. So
it's CWC26.short.gy/workshops.
And I'll just give you a minute to get
there.
Cool. I think we're slightly strapped
for time,
but we're going to run 5 minutes over. I
think it's all good.
Cool.
Um hopefully you're now all at that
link, and we can switch over to the
screen.
So effectively, what we're going to do
in this workshop, and you can go and do
this on your in your own time as well,
is we've built a skill that we've
provided up there in the top left that
you can see,
which will audit your existing evals,
but can also do a sweep of the eval that
you've set up, and basically instrument
it so that it runs across multiple
models,
multiple thinking level like thinking
off and on, and multiple effort levels.
It will then take those results, plot
them, save them, and format them nicely
so you can basically see your eval
performance across different models,
across different thinking levels, and
across different effort levels.
So, in this case we're doing it with Tal
bench, which is basically a benchmark of
customer service agent use cases. And in
this case we're focusing on the airline
side of Tal bench.
Uh in the read me for the workshop, you
will see instructions on firstly, how to
download and set up Tal bench yourself.
And again, you can give this prompt here
to Claude. Claude will go and set it up
for you.
Then the next part, I've already
downloaded Tal bench for the sake of
time.
The next part is to basically run the
skill,
instrument the code so that we run the
eval across different models, different
thinking, and different effort levels.
And then,
run the eval itself.
So, let's ask Claude to do this.
Uh
Can you see okay, or should I zoom in?
Yeah, we can see okay. Thank you.
Okay, so we can see Claude has
successfully loaded the skill.
And
in the meantime, I'm going to kind of
skip directly to the results in the
interest of time and the Blue Peter,
here's one I ran earlier way.
So,
this was effectively the results from
running this sweep. And you can see uh
we've been very easily able to run the
benchmark across
all three models, HiQ, Opus 4 7, Sonic 4
6.
With thinking off and on, and across
different effort levels. And the results
to me at least were pretty surprising.
So, if we take a look at this first
chart,
we see the pass rate per task plotted
against average output tokens per task.
And what we can see is maybe as we would
expect, Opus 4 7 with thinking on with
high effort has the highest pass rate.
But it actually is able to do so with a
lower number of tokens than Sonnet
consumes for the same use case.
If we go to the next chart, it's pretty
interesting as well. So, we can see even
though Opus was the best performing on
high effort, it's also clearly the most
expensive.
So, if we're optimizing in this case for
just pure pass rate, then we would pick
Opus with high thinking, right? Whereas
if we have to optimize for cost, well,
then it becomes a little bit different
because we see that Haiku with thinking
on actually was able to perform
similarly to Sonnet uh with thinking on
and a high level of effort.
And then if we go down to the final uh
chart, we will see something uh somewhat
similar,
but again, very interesting. So, Opus
with high effort and thinking on was
actually able to perform
faster with lower latency than Sonnet
was with a similar level of thinking.
But what these charts, I think, more
interestingly tell us is it gives us the
data to make an informed decision on
which model and config to choose.
We can now identify some of these more
non-intuitive properties of the models
at different thinking levels,
and we can make a decision trading off
our
criteria of what is important, whether
that be latency, whether that be cost,
or whether that be model quality.
Um so, I think we are definitely over
time. So I'm going to end there for now,
but just to leave you again with the
core takeaways.
If you want to pick the right model, you
really should build an eval for your use
case.
For those of you folks who who work with
us in Anthropic and the applied AI team,
like we're very much here to help you
build those.
Number two
is
really try and optimize for the things
you care about in your use case. So once
you've built your eval and you're making
these data-driven decisions, you can
then pick, am I optimizing for
intelligence? Am I optimizing for
latency? Am I optimizing for cost?
And then number three is you can shift
that curve entirely by actually doing
good context engineering, by using these
strategies like prompt caching to get
more out of the model itself.
Thank you very much.
>> [music]